feat(svg-builder): build SVGs after Suzuki-Abe topology extraction (#245)
Ryan-Millard/Img2Num: docs/docs/reference/wasm/modules/image/graph/explained.md

Reviewer: Please add captions to all of your figures like the below to make referencing them simpler:

```md
![Alt text for the image](./img/my-image.png)

*Figure 1: This is the caption.*
```

---
id: explained
title: Graph Explained
sidebar_position: 3
---

To explain Graph creation from image regions we show a diagram representation followed by a concrete step-by-step example.

## Diagram
Assume a region partition image as shown. Each partition (and the pixels contained within) are represented as a Node. Nodes exist in the heap. A Graph is a collection of shared_ptr(s) to these Nodes. A Graph has unique ownership over these Nodes pointers.

> ![slide1](./diagrams/Slide1.SVG)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![slide1](./diagrams/Slide1.SVG)
*Figure 1: Mapping regions in an image (likely quantized) into a Graph's nodes.
```

> ![slide1](./diagrams/Slide1.SVG)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mapping Images to Graphs
Assume a region partition image as shown. Each partition (and the pixels contained within) are represented as a Node. Nodes exist in the heap. A Graph is a collection of shared pointers to these Nodes (`std::unique_ptr<std::vector<std::shared_ptr<Node>>>`). A Graph has unique ownership over these Nodes pointers.
![slide1](./diagrams/Slide1.SVG)
*Figure 1: Mapping regions in an image (likely quantized) into a Graph's nodes.
```
```

> This is how one would imagine the Graph to be connected forming a undirected graph(a). In reality each Node contains a list of pointer to their neighbors, represented as edges (b). Note that adjacent nodes point to each other. Edge management is handled by the Graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a visualization of the Graph with its connections forming a undirected graph (a). In reality each `Node` contains a list of pointers to their neighbors, represented as edges (b). Note that adjacent nodes point to each other. Edge management is handled by the Graph.
```

 **d**. Pixels owned by Node 0 are passed to Node 2. Node 0 is removed from the graph.

 **e**. In image space, Node 2 (region 2) now contains the area that used to be Node 0's.

## Example
1. Consider starting from an image (after bilateral-filtering).

![Image](./img/image.png)

We use KMeans or a similar method to generate initial regions. But these regions do not have unique identifiers. \
Notice also that there are many tiny regions caused by quantization noise even after filtering.

![KMeans](./img/kmeans.png)

We want a smart approach to merge small regions into neighboring regions. To do this build a `Graph`.

2. Building graphs consists of 2 steps:
    - Uniquely label neighboring regions. Floodfill is used for this. This discovers connected components - each connected component becomes a `Node`

    ![Regions](./img/regions.png)

    - Tracking neighbors - the region labels are parsed to check for neighbors by looking at 3x3 neighborhoods. Each `Node` is updated with a list of neighbors forming an undirected graph.

    ![Graph](./img/region_graph.png)

> NOTE: Since many regions are concave, their centroids may appear to be lying far away, but this is correct. Centroids here are just used for visualizing the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Tracking neighbors - the region labels are parsed to check for neighbors by looking at 3x3 neighborhoods (Moore's 8 Neighbors). Each `Node` is updated with a list of neighbors forming an undirected graph as shown below (each centroid is plotted).

    ![Graph](./img/region_graph.png)

:::note Unexpected Centroid Locations
Since many regions are concave, their centroids may appear to be lying far away, but this is correct. Centroids here are just used for visualizing the graph.
:::
```

For this image, is it necessary that lines are drawn between centroid plots? Also, could they be given unique colors?

3. Merging small regions

> The `Graph` is parsed to locate small area nodes. A small nodes are merged with a neighboring node by transfering its pixels and edges to the absorbing node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Graph` is parsed to locate small area nodes. Each small node is merged with a larger neighbor node by transferring its pixels and edges to the absorbing neighbor node.
```

![Graph2](./img/region_graph2.png)
![Regions2](./img/regions2.png)

4. Contour creation

Now that small nodes have been pruned, each `Node` can compute its own contour using the Suzuki-Abe method.

![Contours](./img/contours.png)

However, while correct adjacent nodes will have parallel contours which becomes a problem in SVG creation.

> ![ContoursZ](./img/contours_zoom.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution SVG space offset
While Suzuki-Abe contour tracing correctly captures topological data, adjacent nodes end up with contours offset by ~1 pixel when mapped to SVG coordinates.

<div align="center">
See [this PR discussion](https://github.com/Ryan-Millard/Img2Num/pull/245#issuecomment-3807553622) for details on why this happens.
![ContoursZ](./img/contours_zoom.png)
</div>
:::
```
